.TH lethe 1 "February 26, 2020" "version v1" "USER COMMANDS"
.SH NAME
lethe \- a data wiping tool.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lethe [\fIOPTIONS\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fILethe\fR is a tiny and well-simple tool for data wiping. In Greek mythology Lethe is one of the five rivers from Hades
underworld. According to the myth, who touch, drink or even take a single drop from this river will experience
forgetfulness.
.PP
This is my implementation of a suggestion given by the worldwide known cryptographer and information security specialist
Bruce Schneier in his book "Applied Cryptography", about destroying information:
.PP
.RS
"Most commercial programs that claim to implement the DoD standard overwrite three times: first with all ones, then with all zeros and finally with a repeating one-zero pattern. Given my general level of paranoia, I recommend overwriting a deleted file seven times: the first time with all ones, the second time with all zeros, and five times with a cryptographically secure pseudo-random sequence. Recent developments at the National Institute of Standards and Technology with electron-tunneling microscopes suggest even that might not be enough. Honestly, if your data is sufficiently valuable, assume that it is *impossible* to erase data completely off magnetic media. Burn or shred the media; it's cheaper to buy media new than lose your secrets."

     -- Bruce Schneier ["Applied Cryptography" 228-229 pp.]
.RE
.PP
This book was written at 90's. DoD additionally states that:
.PP
.RS
"The number of times an overwrite must be accomplished depends on the storage media, sometimes on its sensitivity, and sometimes on different DoD component requirements."

    -- National Computer Security Center ["A Guide to Understanding Data Rememberance in Automanted Information Systems"]
.RE
.PP
Here, overwrite times are configured by the user. Anyway, I think that burn-and-shred advices given by Mr. Schneier should
not be discarded.

To learn more deeply about each implemented \fIlethe\fR command you should read the user's manual probably installed in:

\fI/usr/local/share/lethe/doc/MANUAL\fR (or equivalent on your system).

If you prefer you can run the command \fIlethe man\fR.

.PP
\fIWARNING\fR: This general DoD information destruction method does not work with flash based filesystems. It probably will not
work with your smartphone. Do not use this tool for doing this! Maybe in future I may extend this code to give some kind
of support for flash stuff too, but by now, I won't do it.
.PP
Finally, I am not reponsible for any misuse of information or code here. I am not responsible for any possible damage,
data destruction or loss (partial or total) done by this software, too. Who knows your babysitter! Use it at your own
risk!
.PP
.SH EXIT STATUS
If the execution succeeds \fIlethe\fR returns zero, otherwise non zero values will be returned.

.PP
.SH
SEE ALSO
.TP
\fI/usr/local/share/lethe/doc\fR (or equivalent on your system). You can also run \fIlethe man\fR instead.
.PP
.SH
HOMEPAGE
.TP
https://github.com/rafael-santiago/lethe
.SH AUTHOR
Rafael Santiago
